Add storage solutions for Polkadot dApp developers (#867)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/toolkit/integrations/storage.md

---
title: Storage
description: Explore decentralized storage solutions for your Polkadot dApp. Learn about key integrations like Crust and IPFS for robust, censorship-resistant data.
---

# Storage Integrations

> Polkadot offers developers a range of decentralized storage solutions to manage dApp data, host frontends, and store large files in a censorship-resistant and resilient manner. These integrations are essential for building fully decentralized applications, ensuring that all components of your dApp, from the front-end to the data, are not reliant on centralized servers.

Reviewer: I had to look up front end vs front-end vs frontend to see which is correct but, here's what I learned:
Noun:
When referring to the user-facing part of a system, like a website or application, "front end" is the correct term. 
Adjective:
When used to modify another noun, like "developer" or "engineering," "front-end" is the correct term. 
Frontend:
While "frontend" is gaining traction as a one-word term, it's generally not as widely accepted in professional or technical contexts as "front end" (noun) and "front-end" (adjective). 
Clarity:
Using the hyphenated "front-end" is often recommended for clarity when used as an adjective, especially in more formal or technical writing. 
Examples:
"The user interacts with the front end of the application." (Noun) 
"I am a front-end developer." (Adjective) 
"We need to improve the front end." (Noun) 
"This is a front-end framework." (Adjective) 

Please check through the doc and update usage per above (front end for nouns, front-end for adjectives)

## Key Storage Solutions

> By leveraging decentralized storage, you can enhance the security, reliability, and censorship resistance of your dApps. Polkadot's ecosystem offers several options, allowing you to choose the best fit for your specific needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By leveraging decentralized storage, you can enhance the security, reliability, and censorship resistance of your dApps. Polkadot's ecosystem provides several options, enabling you to select the best fit for your specific needs.
```
nitpick Grammarly stuff

Some of the storage solutions available for Polkadot dApp builders are:

- **[Crust Network](#crust-network):** A decentralized storage network that provides an incentive layer for IPFS.
- **[IPFS](#ipfs):** A foundational peer-to-peer protocol for decentralized file storage.
- **[Other Solutions](#other-solutions):** A brief overview of other storage options in the ecosystem.

## Crust Network

[Crust Network](https://crust.network/){target=\_blank} is a decentralized storage protocol built using the Polkadot SDK that serves as an incentive layer for IPFS. As a parachain in the Polkadot ecosystem, Crust provides a comprehensive set of tools and services for decentralized storage.

### Key Features of Crust

-   **Decentralized and Immutable:** Crust leverages a global network of nodes to provide a truly decentralized storage layer, ensuring data immutability and high availability.

> -   **IPFS-based:** Crust is built on top of IPFS, providing a robust and widely-used foundation for file storage. It enhances IPFS with an incentive layer, guaranteeing data persistence and replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **IPFS-based:** Crust is built on top of IPFS, providing a robust and widely used foundation for file storage. It enhances IPFS with an incentive layer, guaranteeing data persistence and replication.
```

-   **Cross-Chain Interoperability:** Through Polkadot's XCM, Crust can offer storage services to other parachains, and it also supports EVM-compatible chains, enabling seamless integration with a wide range of dApps.
-   **Developer-Friendly:** Crust offers a suite of tools, including an S3-compatible gateway, a GitHub-like application for decentralized code repositories, and various SDKs to simplify the integration process.

### Use Cases

-   **dApp Hosting:** Deploy your dApp's frontend on Crust for a fully decentralized solution.
-   **NFT Storage:** Store NFT metadata and assets in a persistent and decentralized manner.
-   **File Storage and Sharing:** Build decentralized applications for file storage and sharing, similar to traditional cloud storage services.

## IPFS

The [InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)](https://ipfs.tech/){target=\_blank} is a peer-to-peer hypermedia protocol designed to make the web faster, safer, and more open. It is a foundational technology for the decentralized web, and many storage solutions, including Crust, are built upon it.

> IPFS uses **content-addressing** instead of location-addressing. When you add a file to IPFS, it is given a unique cryptographic hash called a Content Identifier (CID). This means that the content itself determines its address, making it verifiable and permanent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IPFS uses content-based rather than location-based addresses. When you add a file to IPFS, it is assigned a unique cryptographic hash, known as a Content Identifier (CID). This hashing process means that the content itself determines its address, making it verifiable and permanent.
```

---
title: Storage

> description: 'Explore decentralized storage solutions for your Polkadot dApp. Learn about key integrations like Crust and IPFS for robust, censorship-resistant data.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Explore decentralized storage solutions for your Polkadot dApp. Learn about key integrations like Crust and IPFS for robust, censorship-resistant data.
```

---

# Storage Integrations

> Polkadot provides developers with a variety of decentralized storage solutions to manage dApp data, host frontends, and store large files in a censorship-resistant and resilient manner. These integrations are essential for building fully decentralized applications, ensuring that all components of your dApp, from the front-end to the data, are not reliant on centralized servers.

Reviewer 2: Grammarly suggestion:
```suggestion
Polkadot offers developers a range of decentralized storage solutions to manage dApp data, host frontends, and store large files in a censorship-resistant and resilient manner. These integrations are essential for building fully decentralized applications, ensuring that all components of your dApp, from the front-end to the data, are not reliant on centralized servers.
```

-   **Developer-Friendly:** Crust offers a suite of tools, including an S3-compatible gateway, a GitHub-like application for decentralized code repositories, and various SDKs to simplify the integration process.

### Use Cases

-   **dApp Hosting:** Deploy your dApp's frontend on Crust for a fully decentralized solution.
-   **NFT Storage:** Store NFT metadata and assets in a persistent and decentralized manner.
-   **File Storage and Sharing:** Build decentralized applications for file storage and sharing, similar to traditional cloud storage services.

---

## IPFS

The [InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)](https://ipfs.tech/){target=\_blank} is a peer-to-peer hypermedia protocol designed to make the web faster, safer, and more open. It is a foundational technology for the decentralized web, and many storage solutions, including Crust, are built upon it.

### How IPFS Works

IPFS uses **content-addressing** instead of location-addressing. When you add a file to IPFS, it is given a unique cryptographic hash called a Content Identifier (CID). This means that the content itself determines its address, making it verifiable and permanent.

> ### Using IPFS with Polkadot

Author: Adding this to the page.
